Welcome back.
Now just to recap there are three places where work needs to happen when displaying Web sites.
The first well we obviously make a request to super fresh dotcom.
So there's some work that goes there to transfer that request to the backend or the server and then
the server does a bit of work there and maybe returns the email file finds it and returns it or maybe
needs to talk to a database and retrieve some data there.
We then have to send that information again through the wires.
And then finally in our browser do some work so that we can display the page to the user and looking
at this now we see that there are three foolproof ways to increase the speed of your website and applications
and thereby improve customer satisfaction retention and conversion.
You know things that make your boss employer business really really happy.
So the first thing is you can improve what happens on the client side.
The front end because the front end device needs time to render the page on the screen.
The second thing we can improve.
Well we can improve the transfer of our files over the wire network latency which is every request needs
time to travel from client to the server and back to our network.
Latency is the time it takes to do that transfer.
And this becomes even more essential when we consider that an average web site makes more than 100 requests
to load completely.
Yes that number sounds ridiculous but its true.
Finally the third is we can improve the processing done on the backend or back in processing the web
server needs time to load data maybe from the database and maybe even assemble the website before it
sends it over.
Now for our website to be as fast as possible we can improve something in all three of these sections.
So what can we do.
Well before we jump into things I want to warn you there and find ways to optimize your website or your
app.
However one thing we want to keep in mind is that we want to think like a senior developer.
What does that mean.
It means you always focus on a problem and find a solution that solves that problem in the most efficient
and valuable way.
If you're optimizing your site but you don't even know what is slowing it down are you going to have
comparison numbers or benchmarks to see if your optimizations have actually improved your speed.
Well then you're just wasting your time.
So this is where we're going to do in this course.
We're going to focus on the big ticket items the main performance improvements that improve 90 percent
of your web speed.
Focus on this and you'll be far ahead of most people.
Let's take a look at what we're going to learn.
In this course we're going to cover all of these topics ranging from front end to back end and they
have some cool little logos associated with them.
And these are a lot but by the end of the course I promise you you're going to feel comfortable with
each and every one of these and I'm going to show you how you can actually implement them in your code.
However to start things off nice and easy for this section at least for part one of the performance
section we're focusing on the transfer part as well as the critical render path.
And then in part two of performance we will revisit and we'll talk about writing optimized code and
progressive webapps.
And then finally in part 3 we're going to cover some of the exciting things we can do on the backend
to improve performance and scale.
Like I said by the end of it this table will all make sense and you can call yourself a performance
ninja.
It's an exciting topic.
I'm really excited to get into it.
So let's start off with the network transfer section and the next video.
See on that one Buh-Bye.